In this end of Chapter lab,
we're going to implement
some tracing and then add
some monitoring capabilities to
our microservices from the
quarkus conference application.
So let's run lab monitor-review
start script which
populates the exercise directory
with some files going there.
Listing the
contents of the directory,
we see that there are a couple
of files in addition to
our schedule, session and
speaker microservices.
Look at the containers script first.
What we're going to do here,
what we're going to see here is starting
of the Postgres database container,
Jaeger, front end web application,
Prometheus, and finally Grafana as well.
And then the script waits for us to
press Enter to terminate those services.
So we just basically start those to
have all the supporting services come up.
Then move over to the next terminal,
going again to monitor-
review directory and looking
at the services.sh script.
Now you see that the services.sh
script actually just
simply starts the microservice-session ,
the microservice-speaker  and
the microservice-schedule.
And again waits for us to
press Enter to terminate them.
So let's just run those and wait for
the services to come up.
And then we're going
to the web browser.
So in the web browser we
can have a look around,
look at the Schedules.
Click on Schedule detail,
have a look at that.
Move over to the Sessions
part of the application.
Have a look at the sessions
detail and note how long it
takes for a session
detail page to load.
Then move on to the speaker section and
have look at the speaker
detail. Pretty much everything,
looks okay in this application
except for sessions,
which take an extremely long
amount of time to load.
So what we're going to do is,
we're going to implement tracing.
So stopping the services
by pressing Enter,
making sure there are no
more Java processes running.
We're going to go and add
the extension of smallrye-
opentracing to all three
of the Reactor projects.
There they are.
And the extensions having been added
successfully to all three of them.
Now what we're going to
also do is edit every
one of these microservices
application properties file.
We're going to be adding the
same block to those files,
which is the jaeger.service-name,
the jaeger.sampler-type, sampler-param,
the log.console.format,
the endpoint for the jaeger collector and
the propagation of headers of
b3 and the reporting of
the spans in the console.
So the same configuration for all three of
those services will be added
to application properties,
except that the name
of the service will be
set differently to each
of those, of course.
So in the application properties for
the microservice-schedule will
use quarkus.jaeger.service-name
property of schedule and session and
speaker for the other
two respectively. Right!
Let's restart the services.
And once they've started up,
open the Sessions page
one's more and display
some details about the session. Going to
the jaeager console then on page 16686,
that's localhost port 16686.
We're looking for the session -> service,
Clicking find traces and
having a look at the
latest collected retrieve
Session information.
So looking at the details of this trace,
we see that it takes, actually,
six seconds to complete
the retrieveSession
method invocation of which the
Get and List all actually
take almost no time at all
compared to the rest of it.
So let's have a look at the
retrieve session method.
We can see that the
retrieveSession method
invokes another method
called sessionStore.
findByID and then returns that result.
Now, the findByID method
is not traced because this is
an internal application call.
It's an internal invocation.
So what we're going to
do is we're going to
edit the SessionStore source code file.
We're going to add the Traced import.
And we're going to annotate the findByID
method with a Traced annotation.
Having done that, we can then reload
the page with the session details
that we were looking at before.
Return to jaeager, search for
SessionService traces again
and look at the latest one.
And we are able to see
now that the findById
invocation is actually
shown in the Trace as well.
And we see that it's the findById trace,
the span actually findById span
that takes the six seconds that
the total invocation time is.
So there's clearly a
problem in that method.
Going back to the source code,
we can see that there actually
is a bogus SQL query here,
that just simply selects static
value From pg sleep(5) function.
So, this literally sleeps for
five seconds doing nothing.
And then the result is just thrown away.
We'll just remove that bit of
code from the SessionStore.
java.
Go back and reload the
Session detail page,
noting that it takes a lot
less now than it used to.
Going back to Jaeger, searching
or updating the session traces
and we see that now as opposed to before
where traces took over six seconds,
now the retrieveSession is
only taking about 1 second.
And looking at the details of this trace,
we see that indeed the, while findById
method is still taking
quite a bit of time because
it is hitting the database,
it's no longer wasting five
seconds on doing nothing. Right!
So let's stop the Quarkus services for
the moment and move on to the
next assignment, which is,
we've been asked to enable some metrics
because our applications team wants to
know when people click the 'I am interested'
button in the session overview.
So what we'll do is in
the microservice-session
application we will add the extension
micrometer-registry-prometheus.
And we're going to add a couple of lines
of code to the SessionResource file,
namely the Counted and
the Timed annotations.
Then we're going to add those annotations.
The Counted annotation is going
to be added to the subscribe method.
And the Timed annotation
is going to be added
to the GET sessionDetails method.
Right! Having done that,
let's restart the services using
the services.sh script.
Wait for them to start and go back to
the session overview, actually to go
to the Grafana page on port 3000,
logging in as user admin
and password of admin.
Opening the conference
following clicking on
the Conference App Metrics dashboard.
And it's initially showing
zeros and no Page Fetch Time.
But when we click,
'I am interested' a couple of
times, we will see that
the page fetches have actually gotten
some data and that the Subscriber
Count has successfully increase.
So it's showing some results.
Having done that, we can stop the service.
Actually, we still have
the grading to perform.
So let's not forget that. We've successfully
fulfilled all our assignments.
Let's run the lab monitor-review grade
script to see that it actually is so.
And then once we get
them all passing score,
we can run the lab monitor-
review finish script which will
clean everything up and
conclude this chapter as well.
Join us in the next video
which is the comprehensive
review of this training course.